myself and many others have been in
discussion with the Israeli government
about making sure the building materials
get into Gaza I I don't think in the end
that's going to be the problem actually
I think that there there is a an
agreement being worked out uh which I'm
reasonably confident about that will
allow construction material to go into
Gaza rebuild the infrastructure but also
for private housing um there's a whole
set of other measures we want to take in
order to help Gaza help his private
sector for example but I think the the
real question is you can reconstruct
Gaza but are we going to have a um a
lasting peace and make sure we don't go
back into the cycle of Destruction again
and that I think will also require a
political framework a political Horizon
and a a Palestinian politics that's
unified on the basis of of Peace So I
think it's these bigger political
questions that are really the issue it
was interesting I thought today the
Egyptian president Fat Al Sissi he
called for the vision of the Arab peace
initiative to be considered now just for
a viewer that would be full recognition
of the Jew Jewish state but only if it
gives up all land seized in the 1967
Middle East war and agrees to and I
quote open to interpretation a just
solution for Palestinian refugees what
did you think of that statement by
President
ali um I mean I think the Arab peace
initiative remains one of the most
important things that's happened in the
Middle East over the last couple of
decades it does provide a basis for for
going forward you know 67 borders with
agreed land swaps is essentially the you
know that's the as it were the
traditional formula for the borders of a
Palestinian state but I think my point
really is that you know you you could
probably take 90% of that conference
today from the International Community
from the Arab world and so on and they
would have rough agreement on the
parameters of a of a of an a of a deal
to create a Palestinian State the the
issue and the challenge is the politics
both Israeli and Palestinian that at the
moment aren't cohering in a way that
allow us to to take that that pretty
clear shared International vision and
make it a reality so that's why I say I
think the critical thing is really the
politics so how do you then get in there
and begin to try and battle the
ideological political positions that are
obviously so firmly
entrenched right I think the first thing
is if we're going to reconstruct Gaza it
should be done under the authority of
the Palestinian Authority president abas
and their prime minister prime minister
Amela and it's very important that that
process of of change in Gaza is led by
unified politics in other words Gaza and
West Bank together so Hamas and fata
which are the two Palestinian main
Palestinian parties have agreed that
they will have a process of
reconciliation we need that to happen
but we need it to happen on a basis of
Peace which also takes account of
Israel's security and the second thing
is that we need an Israeli
politics we need to have a a clear Way
Forward so that when the Palestinians
get into a negotiation they know there's
a serious political Horizon for
Statehood because otherwise they think
we're just going to go and talk and talk
and not come to an agreement so it's
it's as I say it's the political
challenge that I think is an even bigger
challenge than putting the bricks and
water back into Gaza which probably
probably can be done